#In this SQL, I'm querying a database with multiple tables in it to quantify statistics about customer and order data. 

#1. How many orders were placed in January? 
SELECT COUNT(orderid)
FROM BIT_DB.JanSales

#2. How many of those orders were for an iPhone? 
SELECT COUNT(orderid)
FROM BIT_DB.JanSales
WHERE Product='iPhone'

#3. Select the customer account numbers for all the orders that were placed in February. 
SELECT acctnum
FROM BIT_DB.customers cust
INNER JOIN BIT_DB.FebSales Feb
ON cust.order_id=FEB.orderid

#4. Which product was the cheapest one sold in January, and what was the price? 
SELECT distinct Product, price
FROM BIT_DB.JanSales
WHERE  price in (SELECT min(price) FROM BIT_DB.JanSales)

#5. What is the total revenue for each product sold in January?
SELECT sum(quantity)*price as revenue
,product
FROM BIT_DB.JanSales
GROUP BY product

#6. List all the products sold in Los Angeles in February, and include how many of each were sold.
SELECT DISTINCT Product, SUM(Quantity)
FROM BIT_DB.FebSales
WHERE locatin LIKE '%Los Angeles%'
GROUP BY Product

# How this can answer business problems or help a business out.
Example: First, I used SQL to calculate various customer metrics such as total spending, purchase frequency, and average order value. 
These metrics are essential in identifying high-value customers who make frequent and substantial purchases, contributing significantly to
the company's revenue.

Next, I utilized SQL to implement clustering algorithms that group customers based on their purchasing behavior. I considered factors like
the number of purchases in the last six months, total spending in the past year, and the recency of the last purchase. By applying these 
clustering techniques, I categorized customers into distinct segments, such as loyal customers, occasional buyers, and one-time shoppers.

Furthermore, I created SQL queries to generate visualizations, such as bar charts and pie charts, to illustrate the distribution of 
customer segments and their corresponding contributions to the company's revenue.

Finally, I presented the findings in a comprehensive report using Tableau / Power BI, highlighting the unique characteristics of each 
customer segment and providing actionable recommendations for targeted marketing campaigns. By leveraging SQL to perform customer 
segmentation, the e-commerce company gained valuable insights into its customer base, enabling them to tailor marketing strategies, 
improve customer retention, and optimize revenue generation.
